# CDSLab Auth

This is the Authentication API for CDSLab.

## Environment setup

### Create `venv_cdslab_auth` environment

Create an environment in your local folder that contains the cloned repository

If you are using `conda` package managment type the following comands (please
be aware that `venv_cdslab_auth` is the default environment name of this repo.
Don't change it):

```shell
conda create --name venv_cdslab_auth
conda activate venv_cdslab_auth
```

Otherwise, if you are using `pip` type:

```shell
python3 -m venv venv_cdslab_auth
```

For activating the environment, if you are on Linux or MAC, then type:

```shell
source venv_cdslab_auth/bin/activate
```

Otherwise, if you are on windows, then type:

```shell
venv_cdslab_auth\Scripts\activate.bat
```

### Required packages installation

Install packages used by **CDSLab Auth**

If you are using `conda`, then you must install the packages using
`requirements.yml` file:

```shell
conda env update -n venv_cdslab_auth --file requirements.yml
```

Otherwise, if you are using `pip`, then you must install the packages using 
`requirements.txt` file:

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Database setup

**CDSLab Auth** requires [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/community).

Once you install **MongoDB**, just execute it.

```shell
mongod
```

The server should start, if it doesn't then refer to official documentation in
order to solve it, otherwise **CDSLab Auth** won't be able to connect with the
database.

### Configuration files setup

#### Database configuration file

To configure the connection to the database you must enter the parameters in
the file `db_config.cfg`, this includes the `host` and `port` used by `mongodb`
and you can assign a name to the database and to the collection where the users
will be saved.

#### Email configuration file

Now you must configure the `send_email.cfg` file for the automatic sending
registration email to users, for this you must enter the parameters of a gmail
account from which the message will be sent, this includes the password,
the account name, the subject of the message and the answer that you want to
see as a response.

#### Environment configuration

The `.env` file contains the paths of the endpoints used by the main app. In
this file you must configure the `host` and `port` that `uvicorn` will use, and
you can name the application path as you like.

#### Secrets file configuration

The `.secrets` file contains the specifications `python-jose` and `passlib`
will use to encrypt the user password and tokenize the parameters like email.
You must specify your secret key, algorithm and expiration time for the token
generated by `python-jose`, aditional you must specify the cryptcontext
parameters used by `passlib` (for more information please visit
[passlib.context - CryptContext Hash Manager](https://passlib.readthedocs.io/en/stable/lib/passlib.context.html),
[JSON Web Signature](https://python-jose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/jws/index.html)
)

Once you have finished with these configurations, then your app will be ready!!

The final step is run the application with help of uvicorn, for this just type:

```shell
uvicorn main:app --host YOUR_HOST(without quotation marks "") --port YOUR_PORT(without quotation marks "") --reload
```
